# Connect Four AI

Base classes needed to create Connect Four have been provided for me. I added my logger from the previous assignment to help me test and debug. I worked on Windows.

## Creating Connect Four with Negamax AI

I set up the Connect Four board and piece placement first, making sure to send pieces to the lowest available space in whatever column a player clicks in. I made a function called findLowestSquareY() to do just that. After that, I implemented win/draw detection. To detect wins, I wrote a function to move through the board in 4x4 chunks, checking the sides and diagonals of each chunk as I go. With that working, I pulled over some of the functions I used for my Tic Tac Toe AI like generateMoves(), negamax(), getBestMove(), updateAI() and evaluate(). I had to rewrite the move generation to only generate moves at the bottom of each respective column, add alpha-beta pruning to negamax, and add extra score calculation to the evaluate function, as I could no longer rely on terminal game states alone. I wrote the functions calculateScore() and scoreOfLine(), which are used to go through all connected pieces in the board and count how many possible lines of pieces there are from each player's perspective, assigning a score to them. For example, a line of two pieces (of the same color) and two open spaces would be worth two points, and a line of three pieces and an open space would be worth 15. A single piece or a line that is broken up by the other player are worth no points. The multiplier I used for lines of three pieces is somewhat arbitrary, but prevents the AI from prematurely blocking lines of two when perhaps it shouldn't be so concerned.